When we talk about machine learning,
you'll often hear the terms 'deep learning' and 'neural networks' come up,
and this might conjure up an image of a brain or
some strange graphic of layers of mathematical formulas and data.
But at their core, all of these learning techniques are
about separating data into different classes.
The image that this conjures in my head is of a child playing on a beach.
The child sees some blue and yellow shells in the sand.
Then someone says to the child,
"Put these shells into groups and draw a line between them".
Without me telling you anything else,
how would you group these shells?
You might separate them by color and shape,
and draw a line in the sand.
Now, for a computer, this scenario might be that we give it individual images of shells.
And just like a child,
a neural network can learn how to separate these images of
shells based on similarities or differences in the given examples.
After the separation step,
if a network sees a new image,
one it hasn't seen before,
it sorts and classifies it based on which side of the line it falls.
Realistically, data is often a lot more complex than this,
but neural networks just layer separation on top of
separation layer to create more complex boundaries and group all kinds of data.
Next, we'll look at how a neural network can be trained to separate data.